---
layout: default
built_from_commit: bde70bf57e0074f7ac207c903f429bc875d6ba4f
title: 'Man Page: puppet node'
canonical: "/puppet/latest/man/node.html"
---

# Man Page: puppet node

> **NOTE:** This page was generated from the Puppet source code on 2026-04-06 14:55:20 +0200

## NAME
**puppet-node** - View and manage node definitions.

## SYNOPSIS
puppet node *action* \[\--terminus \_TERMINUS\]

## DESCRIPTION
This subcommand interacts with node objects, which are used by OpenVox
to build a catalog. A node object consists of the node\'s facts,
environment, node parameters (exposed in the parser as top-scope
variables), and classes.

## OPTIONS
Note that any setting that\'s valid in the configuration file is also a
valid long argument, although it may or may not be relevant to the
present action. For example, **server** and **run_mode** are valid
settings, so you can specify **\--server \<servername\>**, or
**\--run_mode \<runmode\>** as an argument.

See the configuration file documentation at
*https://puppet.com/docs/puppet/latest/configuration.html* for the full
list of acceptable parameters. A commented list of all configuration
options can also be generated by running puppet with **\--genconfig**.

\--render-as FORMAT

:   The format in which to render output. The most common formats are
    **json**, **s** (string), **yaml**, and **console**, but other
    options such as **dot** are sometimes available.

\--verbose

:   Whether to log verbosely.

\--debug

:   Whether to log debug information.

\--terminus \_TERMINUS

:   Indirector faces expose indirected subsystems of Puppet. These
    subsystems are each able to retrieve and alter a specific type of
    data (with the familiar actions of **find**, **search**, **save**,
    and **destroy**) from an arbitrary number of pluggable backends. In
    Puppet parlance, these backends are called terminuses.

    Almost all indirected subsystems have a **rest** terminus that
    interacts with the puppet master\'s data. Most of them have
    additional terminuses for various local data models, which are in
    turn used by the indirected subsystem on the puppet master whenever
    it receives a remote request.

    The terminus for an action is often determined by context, but
    occasionally needs to be set explicitly. See the \"Notes\" section
    of this face\'s manpage for more details.

## ACTIONS
**clean** - Clean up signed certs, cached facts, node objects, and reports for a node stored by the puppetmaster

:   **SYNOPSIS**

    puppet node clean \[\--terminus \_TERMINUS\] *host1* \[*host2*
     . . .\]

    **DESCRIPTION**

    Cleans up the following information a puppet master knows about a
    node:

    *Signed certificates* - (\$vardir/ssl/ca/signed/node.domain.pem)

    *Cached facts* - (\$vardir/yaml/facts/node.domain.yaml)

    *Cached node objects* - (\$vardir/yaml/node/node.domain.yaml)

    *Reports* - (\$vardir/reports/node.domain)

    NOTE: this action now cleans up certs via Puppet Server\'s CA API. A
    running server is required for certs to be cleaned.

**decrypt** - Decrypt a value using the agent\'s own certificate

:   **SYNOPSIS**

    puppet node decrypt \[\--terminus \_TERMINUS\] \[-d DATA \| \--data
    DATA\] \[-e VARIABLE \| \--env VARIABLE\]

    **DESCRIPTION**

    Decrypt a value using the agent\'s own certificate. You have three
    ways to pass data for decryption. You can pass it directly on the
    command line (if your kernel allows command strings that long), you
    can set it in an environment variable and pass the name of the
    variable, or you can pipe it using STDIN.

    **OPTIONS** *-d DATA* \| *\--data DATA* - An string of data to
    decrypt

    *-e VARIABLE* \| *\--env VARIABLE* - An environment variable
    containing data to decrypt

**encrypt** - Encrypt a value using a specified agent\'s certificate

:   **SYNOPSIS**

    puppet node encrypt \[\--terminus \_TERMINUS\] \[-t CERTNAME \|
    \--target CERTNAME\] *string*

    **DESCRIPTION**

    Encrypt a value using a specified agent\'s certificate useful for
    pasting into a manifest for a node_encrypted_file resource type, or
    for a data value for a datacat fragment.

    This will only run properly on a CA node with access to each node\'s
    signed public certificate.

    **OPTIONS** *-t CERTNAME* \| *\--target CERTNAME* - Which agent to
    encrypt for

**find** - Retrieve a node object.

:   **SYNOPSIS**

    puppet node find \[\--terminus \_TERMINUS\] *host*

    **DESCRIPTION**

    Retrieve a node object.

    **RETURNS**

    A hash containing the node\'s **classes**, **environment**,
    **expiration**, **name**, **parameters** (its facts, combined with
    any ENC-set parameters), and **time**. When used from the Ruby API:
    a Puppet::Node object.

    RENDERING ISSUES: Rendering as string and json are currently broken;
    node objects can only be rendered as yaml.

**info** - Print the default terminus class for this face.

:   **SYNOPSIS**

    puppet node info \[\--terminus \_TERMINUS\]

    **DESCRIPTION**

    Prints the default terminus class for this subcommand. Note that
    different run modes may have different default termini; when in
    doubt, specify the run mode with the \'\--run_mode\' option.

## EXAMPLES
**decrypt**

\$ puppet node decrypt \--data *encrypted blob of data* \$ puppet node
decrypt \--env *environment variable containing blob of encrypted data*
\$ echo *encrypted blob of data* \| puppet node decrypt \$ cat
/file/with/encrypted/blob.txt \| puppet node decrypt

**encrypt**

\$ puppet node encrypt \--certname testhost.example.com \"some text to
encrypt\"

**find**

Retrieve an \"empty\" (no classes, no ENC-imposed parameters, and an
environment of \"production\") node:

\$ puppet node find somenode.puppetlabs.lan \--terminus plain
\--render-as yaml

Retrieve a node using the Puppet Server\'s configured ENC:

\$ puppet node find somenode.puppetlabs.lan \--terminus exec \--run_mode
server \--render-as yaml

Retrieve the same node from the Puppet Server:

\$ puppet node find somenode.puppetlabs.lan \--terminus rest
\--render-as yaml

## NOTES
This subcommand is an indirector face, which exposes **find**,
**search**, **save**, and **destroy** actions for an indirected
subsystem of Puppet. Valid termini for this face include:

- **exec**

- **json**

- **memory**

- **msgpack**

- **plain**

- **rest**

- **store_configs**

- **yaml**

## COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE
Copyright 2011 by Puppet Inc., Vox Pupuli Apache 2 license; see COPYING
